All right.
So this section is going to be really quick just about three videos and it's basically an extension
or an add on to the previous section.
It's like a bonus pack where rather than just doing some basic loops exercises I wanted to add in some
more substantial things that we can do with loops.
But I felt the last section was getting too long I didn't want to bloat it.
So this is its own section really about too many projects using loops.
So the first one is going to be a simple guessing game where a computer a computer picks a random number
and you try and guess it will give you a hint.
If you're too high or too low until you finally get it and then after that we're going to make our rock
paper scissors game a lot more playable more interesting so you'll be able to actually play against
a computer it will keep score of who wins and you can do best to add three or you know first person
to hit five or 10 or whatever it is you can set a milestone and you'll continue to play in a loop with
the computer until somebody wins overall.
But to start and we're doing the guessing game.
So let me show it to you first.
If I run my solution I'm guessing that's why the computer picks a number from 1 to 10.
And now it's my turn to guess it.
So I'll start with five.
So I was too low.
So let's try again this time let's do nine.
Oh I got it.
So let me do one more.
By the way you can see it asks if I want to play again if I want to keep playing.
If I hit why it keeps going so this time let's get five again too high.
Let's do one.
I guess that again.
So notice that it tells me too low or too high depending on if I'm too low or too high.
And it also tells me you guessed that you won and I can keep playing and this will keep going forever
as long as I type Y.
But as soon as that type N says thanks for playing and it quits out.
So that's a basic game play.
This is the starter code and really the reason I gave you started code is that we haven't talked about
how to do random numbers.
What we did actually talk about it in the more advanced version of the rock paper scissors project.
But if you skip that totally fine.
This is how you generate a random number.
So we haven't talked about modules we're importing really.
So I'm not going to go into it.
But this is a bit of code we include.
It's part of Python but we don't get it by default out of the box.
We have to reach out and say hey I want that one piece called random.
And then within random there's a function called Rand int and we pass in a start at the beginning.
So a 1 and then a high point 10 and it will generate numbers from 1 to 10 inclusive which drives me
insane because ranges are exclusive but rant is inclusive.
So this every time we call it will generate a random number save it to that variable.
So then it's up to you to then ask the user for guesses.
You need to use a loop to continue asking for guesses while they are wrong while the user has not guessed
the random number.
And as a bonus you don't have to do this but it's good practice to basically keep playing if if the
user enters y after the game is over.
And to break out and you can use break if they type.
And so there's a couple of ways of structuring this but you'll need to use at least one loop and a couple
of conditionals.
All right.
So in the next video we'll go over a solution.